from Hansel minutes.com. It's
Hansel minutes. Oh, weekly discussion
with web developer and technologist
Scott Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number three 99.
Recorded live Thursday, November 21st, 2013. This
episode of Hansel minutes is
brought to you by Tellerik
offering the best in developer
tools and support online@telerikdotcomandbyfranklins.net makers
of gesture pack a powerful
gesture, recording and recognition system
for Microsoft connect for windows
developers details@gesturepak.com. In this episode,
Scott talks with Chris dancy
about the quantified self. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman. This
is another episode of Hansel
minutes. And I'm talking with
Chris dancy who wired called
the quantified man. And how
are you? Right? They actually,
the headline was the, what
was it? The obsolete tech
worker, obsolete tech worker, the
absolute tech worker who rebuilt
his life. But inside, they
called me the quantified man.
And they had like a,
a video hangout on their
YouTube channel where people threw
vitriol at me that I
was some type of digital
Satan. But yeah, Well, let's
explore why you're a digital
Satan. I know, I know
that I have. So what
does it mean to be
quantified? I, I think it
means to measure lots of
things about yourself and as
a diabetic, I've got my
Fitbit, I've got my blood
sugar meter. I've got my
continuous glucose meter and I've
got my insulin pump. So
amongst my peers, I'm pretty
darn quantified. You are pretty
darn quantified. I met you
on an airplane though, either
going to, or coming from
South by Southwest, I was
so excited. And then I
met you and then I
got even more excited And
you have a lot more
data about yourself and your
movements and the things that
you do then. Yes. And
actually I was just at
a conference called defrag, which
has a API developer, or
it's a kind of a
developer kind of smart. So
I don't know what kind
of conference it is. I'm
not gonna pretend like I
know what I'm talking about.
And I was finally asked
a question. No, one's asked
me in two years because
I came out, I went
to cyborg camp two years
ago and then came out
of my data closet by
accident. And when I showed
somebody something, but somebody said
to me, how much data
do you have on yourself?
And I said, what do
you mean? And I'm like,
you know, you have all
these systems clicked and down.
So I guess I'll officially
sign your show. Cause you've
got a really cool show
here. I officially have 14
terabytes for four years of
text data on everything from,
did I take a screenshot
to what song did I
listen to to how much
did I walk to you
name it? How many times
did I use the restroom?
I mean, but it's all
for me, it's all low
friction, right? So no work
involved, right? I have to
just live my life. I
have to be on the
air with you and data
has to be collected. And,
and that has to then
be presented to me in
a way that's searchable in
a way that's visual. I
use a Google calendar for
the visual. I tied it
all to Maslow's hierarchy of
needs. And then I'll ultimately,
I've been playing around with
Stanford steep learning engine to
dump large chunks of it
in there to find out
what I can get. Okay.
So let's, let's back up
and then we'll close. Sorry,
this is good though. This
is why that's what I'm
here for. Let's take this
apart a little bit at
a time. So quantification, self
quantification, this, the idea that
I'm going to do passive
things, whether it be wearing
a wristband or carrying a
phone in my pocket, you're
probably excited about the iPhone
motion processor and you simply
live your life. You're not
like keeping a log book
or checking a box. You're
not being obsessive, your wellbeing,
obsessive compulsive, but you're not
being actively put obsessive compulsive.
Yeah. So I think that's,
there are a lot of
QSRs that don't find me
to be particularly appealing. What
was that term? You just
said quantified softwares. They call
them QSRs. Okay. There are
a lot of, because I
don't do the work, right.
I'm not sitting in, logging
in QS is beautiful because
these people have taken time
to really document and capture
large portions of their life.
They got journals that are
just very intricate, looks like
something DaVinci would create. And
then they turn them in
these beautiful art projects, young
going to New York city this
weekend to see Nicholas Fenton's,
he's having a sale. And
he gets really into personal
data art for me, I
don't have time. So, you
know, if I can set
up a routine to collect
some information in the background,
then that's good for me.
And if I believe that
information can be harvested and
used in some amazing ways,
and we're starting to see
that that's actually what's happening,
especially when you know, more
people talk about internet of
things and more people talk
about quantified self. You know,
my whole thing is if
you take the quantified self
at a very low friction,
mom's just baking cookies and
you take the internet of
things, the kitchens just doing
things. Don't mom and you
marry those two pieces of
data together. You have what
I call existence as a
platform Existence as a platform.
Now, how is this different
or how does this relate
to the kind of life
logging where you see like
different researchers go and plug
cameras in, or they wear
something around their neck and
they're, they're filming and they're
recording. They're like TiVo in
their entire existence. And they
put, and now he's put
on the Google glass. So
they are complimentary things. Yeah,
I think there's definitely, there
seems. I mean, I was
just at the QS conference.
I did one of their
little keynotes two weeks ago
and there definitely seems to
be some overlap, although no
one's willing to come out
and say what the difference
is, you know, that's, that's
cool. It seems to me
that the difference is measurement
is different to me and
measurement and data mining is
different from a recording of
the, I almost had a
thought there. I'm trying to
say that like keeping a
bunch of data time-based data
seems different to me than
just running a surveillance camera.
Yeah. So the opposites Lifelogging
really at its essence is
the, is surveillance inside out,
which is in French is
called Seuss valence. And when
you, when you freaking awesome
word, thank you. And when
you, when you kind of
record and capture, you know,
when, when, when you are
the camera, I think that's
important. And I think in
some ways, you know, Google
glass, all these other silly
things that are out right
now, I'm, I'm, I'm a
modal user to, sorry, it's
now called narrative, which is
a little camera that clips
to your shirt, those people,
you know, I think that's
really interesting. I think that's
a great way. I think
it should be even easier.
So a device that I
love that hasn't come out
yet, but it's on, Kickstarter's
called capture with a K,
but like, pretend you and
I are just talking right
now. And you say something
really amazing. Like you always
do, like earlier healthcare is
my mortgage. I can just
tap the wrist. And the
capture's passively recording all the
time, which, you know, people
should be more worried about
these devices, not Google glass,
but if it's, and then
you, you know, your kid
says something amazing, just tap
it in. And that captures
it. Right. That's so powerful.
Right. So I think lifelogging
is really cool. And you
know, people have called called
me a light flogger. I
really believe that the, you
know, there's too many people
out of work. There's too
many people who are underemployed
and there's gonna be people
who are confused about what
will be around in five,
six, 10 years. And if
we don't use personal information
like solar energy as a
renewable source, both for yourself
and for your environment, I
just think we're doomed. Well,
I think that the, the
essence, the essence there that
I think is most important
is that to simply log
stuff for logging sake, could
arguably be called a compulsion
or obsessive compulsive. And that's
what they said on YouTube.
Then when I did the
wired thing, I was, I
was OCD or something. Well,
and whether you are or
not, I think you probably
are. But I would also
say that that's why you're
successful. I know for a
fact that I have OCD
tendencies and that's why I'm
a good diabetic. Yeah. If
I didn't, I've been smart.
I've been checking my blood
sugar 10 times a day
for 20 years. You know
what I mean? And I
like to like pause and
let the gravity toss of
that, like sink in, you
know, it's not my I'm
not looking for Let's do
it again. Yeah. But how
many times a day, 10
times a day for 20
years. Two years. Yeah. The
thing is once you've reached
40 and beyond, then you
get to start saying 20
years, like it's a big
deal, which is great. If
kids are in their twenties,
you know, since before you
were born son, I'm really
looking forward to saying that.
But my point is, if
I didn't have a little
bit of OCD, I wouldn't
keep it up. Right. You
would get fatigue, you get
info, fatigue. I have no
problem with being, you know,
being labeled OCD. I think
the problem I have with
when people use that term
and unrelated to this conversation
is we as a culture,
you know, I know there's
a lot of talk about
right now, women in tech
and massage, you know, misogyny
and also the kind of
stuff I wish we'd stop
abusing like mental health terms
as like, just throw away
things point, there needs to
be another word I'm not
calling you on the carpet.
And just like, I'm so
tired. Oh, I'm ADHD. I'm
like, I don't know if
maybe, or, you know, another
one I'm bipolar. I'm like,
I don't know. Maybe if
you knew someone who was
bipolar, it wouldn't be a
joke. Do you know? That's
a very valid point. A
lot of people I know
are saying that, Oh yeah,
I think I may have
adult ADHD. I say, you
know, I think you probably
just have internet. Yeah. You
just have internet at your
house. Really? What I do
with my information is create
inner net. Ooh. You're just
dropping the knowledge. Okay. So
that's what it's about. You're
absolutely right. Internet, right? All
we have left is the
inner man Internet, right? This
is important because it's one
thing to, to have OCD
or we need to find
a non mental health related
way to say no, but
I think it's a valid
point, but it's another thing
to use that data. Now,
my point is I talked
to other diabetics a lot.
I'm using diabetes as the
example. Cause that's what I
understand. And they'll say, well,
what do you use to
log? And I said, well,
I don't actually save the
data. I save a window
of it. So for me,
the logging created psychic weight
and stressed me out. And
I know that there is
a log available and I
could look at the last
year, two years, five years
and do something about it.
But ultimately the momentary, the
instantaneous stress of diabetes is
more important to me. So
I have a window of
about five hours that I
care about and I care
about it down to the
minute. It's your life and
death. But After that, I
don't really care how I
did yesterday. Yeah. So I
mean, I think people also
think that I, you know,
I review, you know, all
of this data about my
life. I'm exactly like you,
I could care less. You
know, where it comes in
handy is when I need
something situationally. When did you
talk to Scott or really
cool stuff. When, when, when
did you, when was your
voice above 71 decibels? So
when you can Google the
inner net, there you go.
It becomes, See, that's interesting
now, funny story, and this
is true because, and this
is again the tiny quantified
self talking to the actual
clinic itself. My wife and
I are at this noodle
place. And she's, and I'm
like, we have not been
here since March. And I'm
like, no, no, we were
here. We were here in
June and we have that
kind of standard, you know,
a marital argument. And I
was like, no, I'm pretty
sure we were here. She's
like, no, you're insane. It's
like, okay, well you're taking
this way too seriously. So
I bring up Foursquare and
I show her the check-in,
I just scroll back and
I go, no, here we
were. And here's the time.
And she goes, Oh wow.
You know where we were
at all times. And I
was like, well, I mean,
anything important? Like I don't
know where I was between
this noodle place and the
gas station, but I know
where I checked in. Right.
There is proof that we
were there and that stopped
the argument. It was kind
of cool. I had actually
forgotten about it. I do
that maybe twice. I don't
think GPS has actually to
get us places it's to
keep the people sitting next
to us. Quiet. Yeah. I,
I really liked that Tech
tech has a weapon. I
don't know why we just
don't explore that. You know,
I started as swears. Yeah.
Yeah. I appreciate that. We
don't work blue here on
Hansel minutes. Yeah. So that
was another thing where I
didn't realize that I'd been
passively collecting the state. I
like, I like being mayor.
That's why I do Foursquare.
Like my kids are Good
example passively. There's an app
called moves and it's on
iOS. It's on Android. It's
probably on windows phone by
now. It's probably on everything.
I don't know, but it
passively collects movement and stuff.
So you don't actually have
to wear trackers and stuff.
Oh, I just want the
ones I love, but they've
opened up the backend of
their API so people can
develop for it. And there's
this one called moves export.
I found the other week,
which checks you in frictionlessly,
behind the background into Foursquare.
And what's nice about that.
Frictionless checking is for what
you talked about. My fear
though, is, you know, again,
you have all this brilliant
data about yourself and where
you've been when you were
mayor and you literally have
no access to it. I
always say to someone literally
go to Facebook and show
me what you posted last
week. They're like, I'd rather
rip out my legs, you
know, rip off my face,
you know? And there was
no easy way for people
to have what I call
perspective as a service. Where
is my information and why
can't I see it it's
important to me right now.
We, we totally ruined file
systems. We had hierarchies of
folders network connected drives. Oh,
I didn't know. Let's go
crazy. All right, let's create
the internet and put stuff
all over the place. And
if we don't somehow get
a handle on our personal
information, you know, you're misspelling,
something is going to seem
like, you know, a word
document in a folders can
seem like the least of
our problems when you can't
find out when Rocco, my
dog has seizures. When was
his last seizure? You know,
I've got two things, right?
I've got a tracker on
his neck and then I've
got an ambient noise sensor
in the living room. So
I can tell you, you
know, I can triangulate that
sort of thing. So I
get really passionate about why
it's so important for people
to at least have access
to their dads. Right. And
it's very frustrating that we
can Google the entire internet
in a second. But can't
tell me anything about yesterday.
Yeah. I have no idea
what's going to happen or
I can't, you know, search
outlook in less than five
minutes and have a crash.
Just show me, Show me
the documents you opened yesterday.
Yeah, that's a good point.
That's a good point. I
got it. I've got a
ton of them. This is
the analysis of what's going
on at work is people
always say, Oh, my work,
my job, my work, my
job, no one comes. Gentleman
can, don't get, show me
what they do for work.
And the only quantified ways
we have work are my
Andre emails on my appointments.
I don't know. Here's the
thing you may not know
about. This is, this is
funny. There's a buddy of
mine who has an Apple.
It's tough. Sorry. Say it
again. You know, cool stuff.
I don't know. Some stuff.
Check this out. This application
called time. Snapper is a
background screenshot maker. Do you
know about this? Well, I
don't know about the app,
the concept that they use
in oDesk. So if you
hire someone for a micro
task, one of the ways
you can monitor them is
through constant screenshots. Okay. So
if you have like a
virtual assistant or whatever, you
can see what they're really,
if they're really on Facebook,
are they really doing the
job? Yeah. So when you're,
when you're an independent consultant
and you're doing your timecards,
it's like, well, what was
I doing at three o'clock?
Oh, I was goofing around
on the internet. There it
is. It's like TiVo. It's
like a DVR for your
desktop. I think that's a
great idea, but you gotta
be able to access that
data. And you're saying that
it's spread out, it's in
this API and that API
using to aggregate all of
that. You bring it all.
You're using Google calendar. There's
your database. So yeah. So
everything comes in. It's this,
the processes, you know, very
simple steps, collect, protect, reflect
project. So collect, I just
got to get it all
in there somehow. And that's
like, and it's gotta be
low friction. So a what
can I use? And I
switch applications, devices, sensors, and
services. Like people change take
showers, right? I'm like, God,
that's gone. Now. I find
something better. If I can
get the data, if I
can find a system that
gets it out by RSS
or through, you know, any
like a Yahoo pipe or
if, or Zapier, or I
can just write a hack
to get the information out,
I'll use it. And then
I just want basic things
and location, time duration, I've
got a bunch of bullet
points. So I created what
I call these kinds of
insights and data insights. And
then I just moved that
into a Google spreadsheet to
collect it. I also then,
or any type of access
I could use Microsoft or
anybody just spreadsheet. And then
I move it into a
calendar view. I then store
it in a cloud just
as a text dump in
Evernote. And then that gets
exported out using into text,
just raw text dumps onto
my files. And it's really
have 14 terabytes of text
humps. So, and then the
last part is, you know,
how do you actually deal
with that? And that's where
you actually, you know, you
can do some correlation looking
at it. So a bunch
of weird examples, I could
give a ton of how,
just the voice when I
used earlier, you know, the
lady who helps me clean
my house, you know, I
hired her about six months
ago and I could never
figure out why Sundays I
was getting so sick to
my stomach. And as soon
as I put a indoor
weather station on my desk,
right. I knew the air
quality was toxic. Cause I
was getting feedback. Right. And
I was like, Oh wait,
you know, I'm sleeping like
crap on Saturday night and
I'm waking up and I
have a headache by Sunday
afternoon. I had a camp.
Oh, okay. We're toxic air.
And it's smells like chemical.
That's lovely. So it's the
cleaning chemicals. It was cleaning
chemicals. So I just leave
when she's here now I
have no more problems on
Sunday. That is a first
world problem right there. Yeah,
yeah, yeah. First world. And
so it's a lithium problem.
Yeah. There's that. So what
do you, I understand the
collect part and I see
the idea of bringing it
all in, into some central
format and dumping it, but
on the, on the outside,
on the dashboard, I mean,
I feel like you'd need
it. I could do Google
analytics or a Hadoop or
something like that to really
mind this. Cause that's something
a lot of a, laptop's
not going to be able
to effectively build you a
view of your life with
multiple terabytes. No. So the
easiest way for me to
do it is to just
search the, you know, like
I said, I pump most
of it for, I think
public sake through a Google
calendar and I tie it
to tanneries in my life
or like financial, spiritual health.
Right? So every, every data
stream hits one of those
areas and it's color coded
and it's colors titled Maslow's
hierarchy of needs. And I
basically then say, that's it.
So that's one way I
can see the second way
I can. It was search
that information the third way
I can do it. Like
when you're going down, the
bigger, big data, 14 terabytes
of it. That's where I
just started playing with a
lot of these deep learning
engines that are open source
and just taking massive amounts
of information and dumping them
there. And what's just so
absolutely compelling. You know, a
lot of people use these
deep learning engines for sentiment
analysis on, you know, websites
or, you know, the public,
you know, what's the public
happy about Twitter is IPO.
When you can dump personal
data in there, it's like,
mind-blowingly cool. Cause they were
like, yeah, that was a
bad day. I remember. And
actually this is right. You
know, that, that, that is
such an interesting thing. I
think that I want to
dig into that. Cause sometimes
people forget to have measuring,
to have actual, you know,
non opinion-based at data about
something very often. I will.
Well, actually recently I was
at a conference and I
got a soda and I
said, I don't think this
is diet. And the lady
was like, no, no, I
promise it's diet. And I
drank it. And 10 minutes
later I had a chart
that was showing my blood
sugar going up and I
started to get sick and
I didn't want to be
that guy. You know what
I mean? Like the, is
this diet guy, but I
said that guy by the
way, but I don't want
to be that guy. I'm
a little bit more like
I will hurt myself rather
than be that guy, but
you know, a couple hours
into it. I was just
like, Oh man, I just
drank an entire regular soda
and that I'm going to
be dealing with this for
the next six hours. So
I was up all night
kind of dealing with that.
But it was funny because
I had the numbers to
prove it well before I
would have been like, I
don't really know if that
was, was that diet, you
know what I mean? I
had an incident last year
where a, and I've had
a few of these and
you know, I have to
be very careful about how
I phrase this, but I've
had a few incidents where
I've had run ins with
people or organizations. We'll just
put it that way and
they'll say, well, you know,
you know, you're, that's your
point of view and that's
just not true. And then
I just hand them a
mountain of data and they,
they literally collapsed because, you
know, you can say what
you want about collecting data,
but you don't want to
tell the most quantified person
on earth that he did
or said something that ruined
your day. If he can
prove everything he did and
said, Yeah, it definitely is
gonna make it really hard
for me to frame you
for murder. No I can't.
But I mean, We have
to get you an episode
of law and order, where
were you? Yeah, we did.
We have to have, you
know, he's Chris has murdered
someone. I was like, well
actually no, because the humidity
at the time, you know
what I mean? That's a
very interesting clue for the
quantified self. Yes, absolutely. That
would be that's it to
have an aura, Sherlock Holmes
kind of a thing. Like
you're the mystery person and
you are keeping track of
all of the environmental details
while solving crimes. You'd be
like monk except with data
to back it up. Yeah.
So our, our people now
you are an extreme you're
on the far end. There
are those that don't think
about any of these things
and they just listen to
their bodies. But I think
that the regular kind of
average internet connected person is
starting to move more in
your direction. We've got the
iPhone five S with this
motion, a processor in it.
And I didn't realize this,
but it's actually collecting data,
even if an app is
not asking for it. Yeah.
And you've got the, the
galaxy S four, which is
collecting temperature, humidity and pressure
really. And it's just, yeah,
it's just keeping it, you've
got the Modo, which is
always passively listening. The Moto
X, you know, this is
why I think it's so
important that we start thinking
about the inner net, right?
This is, and I just
pulled this term out of
my, you know, collective backend
at a conference. Cause someone
said, you know, why would
you do this? And I'm
like, well, I need to
start to myself like the
internet. And then I kind
of said, it kind of
fast. I'm like, Oh, I
meant internet. And then it
just became this thing. And
I'm like, that makes sense
to me. So, you know,
these funds are going to
get more and more sensors.
Our houses are getting more
and more connected. You know,
it's just like early web.
It's very deep fragmented. Nobody
wants to talk to somebody.
We don't have a Tim
burner's play. They're common in
sorts of stuff out, you
know? So who knows the,
the I've been getting connected
without realizing it. I added
the Fitbit and it's on
my wrist now. And it
took about a week to
get used to having this
thing on my wrist. Yep.
There's years. And, and I
got an Aria scale and
I see there's one right
there behind you. That's a
really great thing. Step on
the scale every morning. And
now I know how much
I weigh and it's really
awesome. You want some, you
want some hot scale tech.
Okay. What do we have?
Hot scale tech scale tech
minute. They've got this off
again. It's I love pretail.
I am big into Kickstarter.
Anytime I can buy, buy,
buy pretail over retail. I'm
down. Pretail I got to
write all these cool terms
down. So they've sold out
on Kickstarter. They've got a
thing where you put these
little sensors underneath your bed
posts, so you don't have
weigh yourself just when you
sleep your weight automatically. So
you tear your desk, your,
your, your, your zero is
your bed By itself. Yeah.
And then you get on
the bed. Yeah. And it
weighs you. Yeah. Effortlessly. And
that's what I can, you
know, ambient or calm technology,
it's just gets out of
the way and why we're
a bunch of sensors to
track your sleep at the
bed of the sensors of
tracking the way to the
bed can note, if you
were rolling around or not,
there's something called bed. It,
it actually does your heart
rate, but it wraps over
the mattress. So you don't
wear anything. It just, when
you're rolling around, it's covering.
I just think this is,
this is kind of geeky
stuff. Sorry. It's deeply geeky.
It is B. It is
above first World.  I
call it data Elysium. I
interrupted you about that whole.
So you've got your Fitbit.
I'm not actively trying to
quantify myself, but I am
indirectly doing it. Yeah. I
installed recently the Nike, this
app just came out three
days ago called the Nike
plus move app is the
very first app for the
motion detector. So I on,
on the iPhone. So I
put the thing in That
was the most connected man
on earth this, well, there
you go. See, there you
go. Well, the Nike plus
move application, here's the scary
part. It already had 10
days of data on me
because it pulled it out
of the motion coprocessor. So
it's, it's, it's collecting data
even though it's not running.
And it's not that there's
a background process. The processor
itself is keeping that data.
So that became really, really
interesting. I was like, Oh
wow. And then I started
to correlate that with Fitbit
and things like that. Yeah.
And so, you know, about
collecting data without really noticing
it, you know, who's been
doing this for decades and
probably centuries, our spouses, they're
watching everything we're doing. Right.
So, you know, I think
in some ways we do
it with our kids. You
know, as soon as the
biggest thing I struggle with
Scott is now they've been
doing this for three years.
It's sometimes like, even if
I look at you right
now, I actually have to
not directly look at you
in the Skype hangout, because
I see mountains of information
around you just like the
matrix. And it's really hard
because I had to literally
start to study Buddhism and
to meditate because I was
leaving physical space. You know,
people talking about, Oh, they're
checked out. Cause he's using
technology. There's the level of
beyond checking out because you're
using your phone too much
when you see people as
bits and it's just, it
is scary. So I took
my kids to Sherlock Holmes
and my kids are six
and eight and there's a
Sherlock Holmes exhibit. And when
it comes to your town,
you should check it out.
It's really one of the
best museum of science exhibits.
I've seen three things on
my list now it's fantastic.
So we go to this
thing and they've set up
this full-sized dire Emma, effectively
of Holmes's room. And they
give you a list of
things to look for kind
of like, where's Waldo. This
is your practice. Like, do
you find homes is Cain?
So the kids are like,
and we're looking at this
is full size, right? This
is a, a, a set
effectively. So then okay. Now
with the kids are trying
to exercise their brains. So
let me go downstairs to
the next part of the
Sherlock Holmes exhibit. And it
is a complete crime scene.
Nice. And the kids spent
two hours with their little
notebooks doing like rubbings of
footprints and all this kind
of stuff to figure out
what's going on and you
do it. Or do you
just have your kids to
know I did it too.
I did it for you.
And there's like, there's 16
possibilities about like, you know,
what could have happened? And
they, you know, they got
it. Right. So they were
paying attention. And what was
interesting about it is that
now they're looking at people
in that kind of monk
or Sherlock Holmes way, like
you have mud on your
shoes, where did you, where
were you in the backyard?
Or, you know, do you
wash your hands? Why don't
think you did because your
nails are dirty. And so
many ways we do this
online too. You know, I
always tell people, you know,
don't think about people use
it. Don't create content online
for people who are going
to read it, create content
aligned for people who pattern
watch. And if you create
connected pattern, watching experiences, you
have people's attention. Right. Cause
they're looking for, they're looking
exactly like you just described,
they're looking for the clues.
So put a word here,
a picture there, something else.
I mean, I've had people
go to me while that
was really cool. I said,
what? And they describe the
situation. What do you mean?
Well, I saw it on
Instagram and then I saw
you posted something on Foursquare
and then on, on Google,
plus you put something and
then your LinkedIn and they'd
literally made my day. So
I, then I started experimenting.
Could I leave just the
smallest amounts of information across
10, 15, 20 networks to
see people would reconstruct my
day for me. Absolutely. Every
time. Yeah. Yeah. There, there,
there are those that are
kind of, we call it
low key stalking is what
we call that low key
stalking. Yeah. I mean, that's,
that's what the, these, the
young people call it. I've
been on like Instagram and
people will talk about that.
They'll say, yeah, you know,
I'm kind of low key
stalking his Instagram, but I
gotta make sure I don't
double tap or I'll like
that picture. And then they'll
know that I'm creeping around
What Facebook does when they
introduced hashtags. Now I think
it's amazing if you just
do some hashtag searches for
how many people don't know
they're publicly posting. Oh yeah.
They have no idea. Almost
like reading a 12 year
old diary. It's like, Ooh,
you just don't want to
lick your hand. You go
wash yourself with peril. It's
like, don't hashtag search and
Facebook. It's, it's not for
the faint of heart. Let's
bring it back around to
talk about how we do
something with this data. I
didn't realize that even though
I don't tap my Fitbit
before I go to bed,
I can go back and
say, well, I was sleeping
between this time and this
time. And it will reconstruct
my sleep and tell me
when I was, you know,
moving back and forth. And
this is not something I'm
used to doing you of
course, to do this all
the time. But I realized
that I'd only slept five
hours, three days in a
row. And I was about
to hit the wall. Then
it did, in fact, hit
the wall. Had I not
done that sleep logging, I
would have just slept in
and missed a meeting. You
know what I'm saying? Like,
it's, what's interesting to me,
isn't the collecting of the
data, but it's the using
it to make my life
better to change something. So
there's a couple of layers,
right? There's the, you talked
earlier about, you know, you,
weren't gonna hit your two
step plumbing yesterday. So, you
know, you got on the
treadmill and now you're talking
about the sleep stuff. So
I think, you know, there's
almost like a level one
where, you know, the information
and the devices and sensory
services applications, they enhance your
relationship with your own information.
So in some way, it's
like getting to know you
so that you can change
behavior. Level two is really
where you have this assisted
relationship. And this is where,
you know, I really like
to focus a lot of
my work and personal research
and that's how do I
hook up these devices to
assist me? So if I
do raise my voice, like
I raise my voice like
this and you'll notice the
lights will start to dim,
right? If my heart rate
gets too high, the lights
at the house, temperature changes,
and then there's, there's the
adaptive experience. And that's the
one I'm coding up now.
And that's where I really
want it to look at
my calendar tomorrow and start
to introduce music and, and,
and, and experiences and environmental
conditions and suggestions to optimize
tomorrow through today's environment. So,
you know, you've got this
kind of reflective thing that
we all do. You've kind
of got this assisted thing
where you could say, Hey,
you know, just modify the
environment for this condition. And
you've got this kind of
adaptive state where you can
pre, I call it preconditioning
spaces. And I think smart
cities are all about preconditioning,
but I think that's pretty
scary stuff. If you actually
think through the process, What
I think is a little
bit funny about this also
is that there may be
those listeners who are hearing
you and some non-zero percentage
of them may have just
kind of declared that you're
a kook and they're like
this guy's got way too
much information going on, but
those are the same people
that go and see science
fiction movies, where Arnold Schwarzenegger
gets out of his bed
at, at, on Mars. And
his house says, welcome, you
know, hello, your vitamin a
level is a little bit
low. We'll be, you know,
I'll be putting that into
your juice this morning. And
then we noticed your heart
rate was up last night.
Did you have a nightmare?
And we think that's awesome.
I feel like what you're
doing actively is the beginning
of what will then happen
passively. Well, it's funny. Cause
every time I speak at
a conference or someone talk
over it, you know, I
have an opportunity to speak
with someone as cool as
you people always go, you
actually are the living in
the future. And I'm like,
no, I'm living in what
we call the present. I'm
just paying more attention. Right?
So, you know, I'm not
like some brilliant person. I'm
a guy who likes to
hack data. I'm a guy
who likes to buy consumer
gadgets. I live in pretail.
I live in connected devices.
And I think ultimately, I,
you know, I spent a
decade as a SQL DBA.
When you start to realize
that life is a select
statement, why wouldn't you build
the best parts of it?
You know? And this is,
you know, and I believe,
you know, ultimately I've said
it a million times, I'll
say it again. People need
to work. And how do
we build a platform for
people to work? And if
they don't work, how do
we let them not work
and still make a living?
And, you know, mom making
cookies is doing a lot
more than making cookies. And
information's all sorts of good,
Certainly as honorable to have
a hobby as any other
hobbies that I've heard about,
whether it be coupon, clipping,
or all the other things
that people use to pass
their time. Although you've got
data to show for it.
A buddy of mine here
in Portland, ward Cunningham is
a technologist and he made
the Wiki. When I went
over to his place a
couple of years ago, he
has quantified data, not on
himself, but on the plants
around his house. He knows
about the humidity, like of
different corners of his house
because different plants face the
sun in different ways. And
from his perspective, not only
is it a super fun
hobby, cause he's hacking Arduinos
to do this work for
him, but he gets to
see how it affects things.
And he says those plants
are growing better now because
I kept the data actually,
you know, I'm just realizing
that I have even more
data because I have a
weather system, a little tiny,
one more data. I have
a little weather thing on
top of my house that
manages my watering of my
lawn. Yeah. Now you're going
to make me go and
open that thing up and
find out how to get
there. He'll wake up tomorrow
and suddenly the world will
be information and you'll want
a relationship with it. And
it's, it's not, No, I
want, I want to unlock
the information of my sprinkler
system. Yes. Free it. I
mean, this is, this is,
I mean, all these brilliant
developers out there, all looking
for cool stuff. And yet
we're making like, you know,
you know, you know, silly
games on our phones and
sticky websites to keep people's
eyeballs occupied. And I don't
know. I just think we
can, we can do better
as a species, you know,
So people can go and
learn more about you@aservicesphere.com. They
Google for Chris dancy. They'll
find your Twitter, your LinkedIn
they'll find the wired article.
They'll find your slide shares.
Where else do people need
to go to check out
information about the quantified self?
Well, there's that quantified self?
The, the actual organization. They
have a website where they've
got just brilliant talks and
about the collection and the
technique, because there's also a
very deep conversation around the
technique specifically. I, you know,
I don't know. I mean,
a lot of people write
about me until this year.
You know, there's a really
good, nice NPR piece that
people can listen to. I
don't have a homes. I
mean, service. Here's where I
kind of like put all
sorts of stuff. But like
I said, it's all just
kind of out there. Or
you just reach out to
me, you know, my phone
number is actually on the
internet. So if you have
any questions, it's, it's good
stuff. And I can't thank
you enough. I was so
enamored with you after I
met you on a plane
and, and truth be told,
everybody should know, I stopped
you for like, I dunno,
it's been a year and
like to actually get to
talk to you. So, so
you've been low key stalking
me on Instagram. Trying not
to like my pictures. No,
just, just kinda like I
keep, I think I've been
like old school, old sock
is sending you emails randomly
like, Hey, can we get
together? Hey, you're going to
get together because you've got
such a brilliant perspective on
work and the future of
work and health, you know,
I just felt like I'd
met like, you know, like
Darth Vader, my, my, my
quantified Darth Vader father. Well,
that is very kind. I
appreciate you chatting with us
on the show today. Thanks
so much. This has been
another episode of Hansel minutes
and I'll see you again
next week. .